let's do some backwards thinking today
in order to achieve inner peace we might
want to explore
what actually stands in the way of
achieving it
so we can eliminate these things and
reach a state of tranquility
in this video i will present you 10
things that
disturb inner peace
1. the need for validation we don't
control what other people think about us
sure we can influence it but no matter
if we do
everything right it's still up to them
if they validate us
or not some people simply dislike you
maybe they don't
like your face or they don't like your
skin color or they may have negative
past experiences
that they somehow connect to you no
matter what the reason is
validation from others is beyond our
control and therefore
it's a weak and unreliable factor to
pursue
if we need the validation from other
people we basically become their
servants
because our happiness is dependent on
their judgment
two rumination about the past our minds
will never be peaceful
when they cannot let go of the past if
we carry past events with us all the
time
we burden ourselves with luggage that
increases in weight every day
the problem is we cannot change the past
it's already happened also we cannot
really trust
the mind in regards to retelling a story
about the past
the stories we tell ourselves are often
biased
and incomplete on the other hand life
experiences
often contain valuable lessons so the
art is losing the past without losing
the lesson three worry about the future
how can we be peaceful if our minds are
lingering in the future
the problem with the future is that it
hasn't happened yet
so by thinking about it we approach an
infinite amount
of possibilities it isn't surprising
that the uncertainty that goes hand in
hand with
figuring out what the future will bring
causes anxiety
this doesn't mean that we shouldn't plan
it's just that repeating
fantasies in the mind about possible
outcomes over and over again
is pointless and also damaging an
antidote for this is called amorfati
which means the love of fate amorphati
is the art of embracing whatever the
outcome is
4. the need for perfection you know what
they say
perfection doesn't exist and i think
that's true
nevertheless the perfectionists are
always
restless because of the idea that their
creation isn't good enough
the problem is that because perfection
doesn't exist not a single
result will ever satisfy a perfectionist
there will always be that feeling of
dissatisfaction with themselves and
their capabilities
should we strive for imperfection then
no
i don't think that's a great idea either
there's nothing wrong with the desire of
wanting to create something great
if we humans didn't have that desire at
all we would never have gotten out of
the stone age
so how about replacing perfection with
excellence because achieving excellence
is completely
doable and thus doesn't burden the mind
with the insatiable need to be perfect
5. the need for control over other
people
what other people do or say is not up to
us
we can try to restrict our freedom we
can set rules for them
we can use punishment and reward to
train them doing this can
influence their behavior greatly however
at the end of the day
we do not control their actions and we
have no guarantee that the outcome of
our guidance
teachings or corrections will be
desirable
the same goes for politicians terrorists
or
drug trafficking we cannot control
people's decision to behave in ways we
don't like
if we try to control other people's
opinions speech and actions we are
setting ourselves up for an impossible
task
and a lot of headache 6.
fear of aging and death why are some
people so obsessed
with preventing the aging process
there's clear evidence that aging is
inevitable of course we can extend our
life by certain healthy habits and
taking good care of the body but this
doesn't stop the body from aging in the
long run
the same is true for death there's never
been an immortal human being
and i don't see that happening in the
near future and even if someone conquers
natural death by ageing there will most
likely be another cause
that leads to the eventual death of that
person
simply put we all fall apart and
everyone has to go
sometime how about just embracing this
and stop resisting the ever-changing
nature of the universe
this saves a lot of stress 7.
fear of the unknown most people i know
have a certain fear
of what's alien to them it could be the
fear of flying when they have never
flown before
or the fear of people from a different
culture because they aren't familiar
with them etc i think it's quite natural
to be
extra alert when exploring unknown
territory
because you never know what you're going
to get in other words
it's a survival mechanism in a world
that's completely
out of control the dark side however is
that the unknown leaves a gap for us
to fill in with our thoughts these could
be fantasies about the unknown future
or worries about a plane crash the thing
is
we just don't know however there's a way
to make peace with the unknown
which is trust eight the need to defend
yourself
in some occasions we have to defend
ourselves to survive
but most of the time it's just the ego
defending itself
when there's no real threat again we
don't control the world around us
and what other people say and do so it's
often pointless
to defend ourselves when someone says
things about us we don't like
people that engage in talking ill about
other people all the time
well it's their problem right also it's
none of our business
so why would we spend time and energy
defending ourselves from these people
this only proves to them that their
words have value
and they possibly delight in the fact
that their attacks
affect us the antidote is simple choose
your battles 9. greed
greed is another thing that disturbs
inner peace because
what do we really need are our basic
needs
met if yes why do we need more
greed is closely linked to future
outcomes because we possibly have a few
things in mind
that we want to secure in order to be
happy this could be
financial independence so we don't have
to worry about money anymore
or a new car because we have to keep up
with the joneses
greed can lead to constant worry and
constant dissatisfaction
because it's never enough and the more
wealth we accumulate
the more fearful we become to lose it
now
there's nothing wrong with accumulating
wealth in my opinion as long as we are
able to detach from it
in a healthy way so we can actually
enjoy the present
moment 10. aversion people that have
decided for themselves that they dislike
or even hate
certain things people or situations will
probably either
avoid or fight the objects of their
aversion
in both cases energy is spent even
though these people are willing to
sacrifice this energy in order to stay
away from the things they obverse
the problem is the world is beyond our
control and there is no guarantee
that we will never encounter the objects
of our aversion
so when we do we are going to be hurt
now
i think there's nothing wrong with
aversing some things
like the things we know that are bad for
us but there's a difference in doing so
in a friendly
non-hateful way and from a place of
disgust
so these were 10 things that disturb
inner peace
thank you for watching
[Music]
you